===PAGE 1===
Assignment: Database and Information Systems 
COMP2013J: Databases and Information Systems 
Weight: 30% of final grade 
This assignment is a group programming project. As informed previously, failure to fill out 
the form before 11th April will result in a penalty (10% deduction). If you have suffered any 
problems building your team, please contact our head TA, Jie Chen 
(jie.chen1@ucdconnect.ie), as soon as possible so we can help you get placed into a 
team. Note: the head TA has the right to add a new team member to a team with fewer 
than five members. 
This is a self-proposed project, you can develop any information system you wish, so long 
as it meets the following criteria: 
•It is an information system. 
•It must include a database system, and the database should be complex enough to 
cover the knowledge learned from the lectures and labs.  
•It can include a nice user interface. e.g. Web, application, etc. 
•The system you proposed must be implemented by using a Java-based solution, and 
also any ORM technology and complicated MVC frameworks are not recommended. 
•There is a clear division of labour between team members. 
•It is legal. 
The assignment will start from Week 8. From week 10, each group needs to write down 
their self-assessing for the previous two weeks (One paragraph)  and the group plan for 
the next two weeks (One paragraph) and email it to our head TA, Jie Chen 
(jie.chen1@ucdconnect.ie). In other words, every team needs to send this tiny report 
every two weeks in week 10 and week 12. The email subject should be “COMP2013J 
GroupXX WeekYY” (e.g., COMP2013J Group01 Week10). When the project finished, 
these self-assessing records should be attached as appendixes into your report. 
At the end of the semester, each group must write a report documenting all aspects of the 
project. The report should include but not limit to the following sections:  
•System Description (Describe the system you want to build and document any 
assumptions that you make.) 

===PAGE 2===
•Tasks. (Every step of your design and implementation process, e.g. Creating ER 
diagram to model a database for your system, Mapping the ER diagram to a relational 
model, CREATE TABLE statements for your relational model, etc.) 
•Team Member Contribution. 
•Self-assessing and self-feedback records. 
The report should have screenshots of the user interface and other necessary diagrams. 
Each group must prepare a video (around 5 mins) to present their system. All group 
members are expected to participate equally in the preparation and delivery; unequal 
participation will reduce grade awarded. 
The interview of each group will be held on after submission. The timetable for each group 
will be given later. Each group will have 10-15 mins (5 mins for your live demonstration 
and 5-10 mins for QA).  
Note 
•This assignment may require you to do some independent research outside of what is 
directly covered in the lectures.  
•Any software code should be included as a .zip file and uploaded to Brighspace. The 
files uploaded should be complete and in the correct format, i.e. it should be possible to 
download, compile (if applicable) and run. 
•Only one member should make the submission. 
•Be careful, a sophisticated system without track records (plans and self-assessment 
reports) or a good explanation and understanding during the interview will receive little 
credit. 
•Any AI Assistants in writing your report must be explicitly and clearly stated. 
•The deadline for submission (a pdf copy of the report, a video, a zip file including 
code, and data) will be 1st June. Note, these files must be submitted as an individual 
file, i.e., your pdf report and your video must be submitted as an individual file, 
which should not be compressed into the zip file. 
Grading 
System Description System Design Interface Presentation (including 
videos)
5% 60% 20% 15%

